Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
        A.A programming language is a computer language programmers use to develop software programs,
        scripts, or other sets of instructions for computers to execute.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
        A.The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets.


What is IDE?
        A.A Java IDE (for Integrated Development Environment) is a software application which enables
        users to more easily write and debug Java programs

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
        A.NetBeans,IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Jdeveloper, Dr. Java, BlueJ, jCreator.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
        A.According to sun, there is only 4 states in thread life cycle in java new, runnable, non-runnable and terminated.

what is class?
        A.class, in the context of Java, are templates that are used to create objects, and to define object data types and methods.

What is object?
        A.A Java object is a combination of data and procedures working on the available data.

What is the entry point of an application?
        A.A Java object is a combination of data and procedures working on the available data.

Why main is static?
        A.Java program's main method has to be declared static because keyword static allows main
        to be called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined.
        In this case, main must be declared as public , since it must be called by code
        outside of its class when the program is started.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
        A.lang. Object class is the super base class of all Java classes.
        Every other Java classes descends from Object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
        A.Major Differences between Path and Classpath is:
        Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
        Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path,
        of classes.ie in J2EE we give the path of jar files

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
        A.Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have
        implementations. A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default
        behavior. Variables declared in a Java interface is by default final. An abstract class may
        contain non-final variables

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
        A.You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class
        (interface is not even considered as a class.) What you can do is to implement a subclass
        of abstract class which, of course, must not be abstract.

what is Access Specifier?
        A.Access modifiers (or access specifiers) are keywords in object-oriented languages that
        set the accessibility of classes, methods, and other members.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
        A.Object Oriented programming and feature of java OOP are: Inheritance. Polymorphism. Data Hiding. Encapsulation.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
        A.A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces.
        The java. lang package is imported implicitly.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
        A.Java application programming interface (API) is a list of all classes that are part
        of the Java development kit (JDK).

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?

        A.java does not support multiple inheritances through classes but through the interfaces,
        we can use multiple inheritances . No java doesn't support multiple inheritance directly
        because it leads to overriding of methods when both extended class have a same method name.
        What is method overloading and when it happens?

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
        A.Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
        throw an exception” because in Java you use the keyword “throw” to hand the exception to
        the runtime.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
        A.In Java, static keyword is mainly used for memory management.
         It can be used with variables, methods, blocks and nested classes.
         It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class.
         Basically, static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for
         every instance of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
        A.final keyword is used in different contexts. First of all,
         final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable,
         a method or a class. Following are different contexts where final is used.
         When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified,
         essentially, a constant.

What is final, finally and finalize?
        A.Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final
        variable value can't be changed. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing
        just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
        A.A constructor is a special method of a class or structure in object-oriented programming
        that initializes an object of that type.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
        A.A class can have multiple constructors, as long as their
        signature (the parameters they take) are not the same

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
        A.All classes have at least one constructor. If a class does not explicitly declare any,
        the Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default
        constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
        A.Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
        Asuper can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
        super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method. super() can be used to
        invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
        A.A Java virtual machine (JVM) is a virtual machine that enables a computer to run Java
        programs as well as programs written in other languages that are also compiled to
        Java bytecode.

Is JVM platform independent?
        A.The JVM is not platform independent.

What version of java are you using?
        A.My current version is Java 8

What is JAR stand for ?
        A.JAR stands for Java ARchive. It's a file format based on the popular ZIP file format
        and is used for aggregating many files into one.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
        A.JVM is Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode.
        JDK is Java Developer Kit, the JDK is what you need to compile Java source code.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
        A.The JRE is the environment within which the virtual machine runs.
        JRE is the container, JVM is the content. Java Runtime Environment contains JVM,
        class libraries, and other supporting files.

What is compile time and run time?
        A.Compile-time is the instance where the code you entered is converted to executable
        while Run-time is the instance where the executable is running.

What is heap?
        A.The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays
        is allocated.

How java manage it's memory?
        A.The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
        A.The difference between StringBuffer and StringBuilder is that StringBuffer is thread-safe.
        So when the application needs to be run only in a single thread then it is better to use
        StringBuilder . StringBuilder is more efficient than StringBuffer .

What is Singleton class?
        A.The singleton design pattern is used to restrict the instantiation of a class and ensures
        that only one instance of the class exists in the JVM

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
        A.Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
        Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual
        Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
        A.The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to indicate that
        serialization process of such class should ignore such variables

Difference between while and do..while loop?
        A.Here, the main difference between a while loop and do while loop is that while loop check
        condition before iteration of the loop. On the other hand, the do-while loop verifies the
        condition after the execution of the statements inside the loop.

What is Enum?
        A.A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants.
        More precisely, a Java enum type is a special kind of Java class.

What is Iterator?
        A.In Java, Iterator is an interface available in Collection framework in java.
        util package.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
        A.Each Integer object can occupy 4 (or more) times the storage space as a primitive 'int',

Why is String Immutable in Java?
        A.The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
        A.Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor
        with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
        A.serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for
        the GC operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What is JIT stands for?
        A.JIT stands for Just In time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
        A.Java Heap space is used by java runtime to allocate memory to Objects and JRE classes.
        Whenever we create any object, it's always created in the Heap space.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
        A.Being an automatic process, programmers need not initiate the garbage collection process
        explicitly in the code.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
        A.The main difference between heap and stack is that stack memory is used to store local
        variables and function call while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
        A.Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at
        runtime, without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc.

what is multithreading in java?
        A.Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.
        A thread is a lightweight sub-process, the smallest unit of processing.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
        A.Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared
        resource with multiple threads in Java.

What is Framework?
        A.Frameworks are large bodies (usually many classes) of prewritten code to which you
        add your own code to solve a problem in a specific domain

What are the testing Framework available in java?
        A.HTTPUnit is a Functional testing framework based on JUnit, though it can be used for
        Unit Testing. TestNG is a powerful Java-based testing framework for Unit.


Difference between jUnit and testNG?
        A.JUnit 4 and TestNG are similar on the surface. But whereas JUnit is designed to hone in
        on a unit of code, TestNG is meant for high-level testing

What are the dependencies for this project?
        A.Dependencies are the relationships of the preceding tasks to the succeeding tasks.

what is dependency injection in java?
        A. Dependency Injection in Java are: Separation of Concerns.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
        A.Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to
        resolve binding.









